---
title: What is numberDNA?
permalink: "/index.html"
Color: "#dbe116"
layout: page
---

**This website is in development.**

I am currently seeking funding to develop a project called **Number DNA**.

Number DNA, as conceived, is a set of 16 web-based math apps that prepares
individuals to take on (and succeed in) Algebra and beyond. You can practice
Number DNA anywhere: on your phone, tablet, or laptop. A flexible package,
Number DNA breaks down the 16 blocks of knowledge that must be securely mastered
to become proficient in Algebra.

After taking a one hour pretest, you receive your personalized report, which
acts as your game plan. It tells you which foundational skills you have securely
mastered and which ones you need to work on. As you progress through your game
plan you will earn badges that represent your mastery of each new block of
knowledge.

Number DNA is designed to be self-paced and self-directed, with support both
online or via downloadable practice sets.

**Who could use Number DNA?**

**Businesses** could use Number DNA as training modules to improve the numeracy
skills of all workers. Badging completely through all 16 web-based apps (in
each) could become a basis for evaluation and/or a modest bonus. It might also
be a springboard for additional training opportunities.

**Colleges and Community Colleges** could use Number DNA to help the millions of
students who test into remedial, not-for-credit math classes circumvent or
replace that requirement. Badging could be used to document a student’s mastery
of requisite foundational skills.

**Middle Schools and High Schools** could use Number DNA as a self-paced
remediation package. The pretest would diagnose each individual student’s
strengths and weaknesses and thereby provide an intervention plan tailored to
each student.

**Teachers** can use Number DNA, as it has also been designed to be used in
conjunction with the following textbook: **Foundations For Algebra**. This text
contains detailed discussions that start with whole number factors and
divisibility and continues through fractions, percents, integers, and solving
basic equations using positive numbers, negative numbers, and fractions.

This web page will contain the latest updates and progress reports concerning
the project.